(Docs): Added Call-for-ideas Blog post (#172)
uptane/uptane.github.io: blog/2024-01-12-callForIdeas/index.md

---
title: "Exciting Opportunities Await: Uptane Calls for GSoC 2024 Idea List Submissions! ☀️🚀"
authors:
  - Abhij
---

![](callForIdeasBanner.png)

# Title: Exciting Opportunities Await: Uptane Calls for GSoC 2024 Idea List Submissions!

Greetings, Uptane community 👋!

> As the dawn of Google Summer of Code (GSoC) 2024 ☀️ approaches, we're thrilled to announce a call for idea list submissions. Jon Oster has already put forth two compelling proposals, and we're eager to expand this list with your innovative ideas. Before diving into the details of Jon's proposals, let's encourage everyone to participate in the discussion and contribute fresh perspectives on our [GitHub discussion board](https://github.com/uptane/uptane.github.io/discussions/166).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As Google Summer of Code (GSoC) 2024 ☀️ approaches, we're thrilled to announce an open call for possible Uptane projects. One of our community members, Jon Oster, has already put forth two compelling proposals, and we're eager to expand this list with your innovative ideas. Before diving into the details of Jon's proposals, let's encourage everyone to participate in the discussion and contribute fresh perspectives on our [GitHub discussion board](https://github.com/uptane/uptane.github.io/discussions/166).
```

> Now, let's explore the exciting projects proposed by Jon Oster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are the current projects proposed by Jon Oster:
```

## Proposal 1: Integrating aktualizr with Popular Embedded Software Updaters 🔄

Aktualizr, a Uptane client written in C++, focuses on embedded Linux systems. Uptane's core functionality is vital for securing and validating software updates in highly security-sensitive and safety-critical systems. However, aktualizr currently supports only OSTree as a method for installing updates.

> This GSoC project aims to enhance aktualizr by implementing support for an A/B partition-based update method. Swupdate or RAUC, two popular open-source software updaters, are the targeted integration points. While libaktualizr already supports additional package managers, collaboration with the maintainers of Swupdate or RAUC would be ideal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This GSoC project aims to enhance aktualizr by implementing support for an A/B partition-based update method. Swupdate or RAUC, two popular open-source software updaters, are the targeted integration points. While libaktualizr already supports additional package managers, our ideal solution would be a collaboration with the maintainers of Swupdate or RAUC.
```

**Key skills required:** Systems-level programming in C++

**Potential mentors:** Jon Oster, Patti Vacek, Phil Wise, Rogerio Borin, Phil Lapczynski, Person-to-be-named-later from SWUpdate or RAUC project.

## Proposal 2: Creating an Open-Source Web UI for OTA Community Edition  🌐

> Uptane's project already boasts open-source implementations of core back-end services. However, setting up and using these services can be challenging. OTA Community Edition provides a simplified, docker-based deployment method, but lacks a crucial component - a user-friendly UI.

Reviewer: If we are talking about the project Docker, it should be capitalized.
